# sansi

## NAME

**sansi** −− **S**trip**ANSI**; strip ANSI escape
equences/characters from text files

## SYNTAX

**sansi** < ANSIfied_textfile > unANSIfied_textfile Strips ANSI from
**ANSIfied_textfile**. Where **ANSIfied_textfile** is the name of the textfile
containing ANSI, and **unANSIfied_textfile** is a filehandle you've chosen for
it's output (**sansi** redirects the filtered output to the filename you've
chosen).

## DESCRIPTION

**sansi** was written to strip the ANSI control sequences in files, or output,
often, but not limited to those generated by compilers. I found it difficult to
visually grok/grep the output of _script_(1) sessions. Especially with the
advent of clang. While it's nice to replay the _script_(1) sessions to view the
highlighted messages. It's near impossible to read it inline in your favorite
pager, or text editor;

Enter **sansi**.

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

John Marino It probably would have never occurred to me to release this,
except that I thought it might help him, and the other [FreeBSD]
committers. I hoped it might help him after all the [unintentional] grief
I've caused him. Thanks for your patience, John!

## OPTIONS

<**ANSIfied_textfile**> <_Input file_> File name with embedded ANSI sequences
<**unANSIfied_textfile**> <_Output file_> File name Stripped of ANSI sequences.

## FILES _/usr/local/sbin/sansi_

## ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

None at this time.

## EXAMPLES

To strip the ANSI sequences from the file MakeOutput, saving the results to
CleanOutput:

**sansi** CleanOutput

## BUGS

Doubtful. But who knows?

## AUTHORS

Chris Hutchinson

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2014, Chris Hutchinson, taint, portmaster

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself. Or under the BSD2CLAUSE license, at your
choice.

## SEE ALSO

The **sansi** command first appeared in 2014, when it was determined that
Eye Candy isn't always sweet.

* * *

